Welcome to revenue optimization with Statrone.  I want to talk about data viz and BI and I'm going to bring Tableau into this discussion mostly because I saw this uh thread on Reddit and I'm just going to read the title.  It's called Goodbye Tableau.  And it's got a short story about how this person said they've been working in this uh national statist Stats office since 2020.  They've been using Tableau blah blah blah blah.

They need to build reports.  sometimes they need to put these on web pages and they explained how the workflow usually takes them a lot of effort to do and they basically said they started using I think it was Gemini to recreate the dashboards and basically they said it did it better in 20 hours they just basically said it was faster um they basically said I think the Tableau era is over and have you had a similar experience and there's more people jumping in on the convo I mean this is on the subreddit for Tableau itself so this is pretty damning thing.  I mean, I think the company Salesforce would hate to actually see a post like this on Tableau where people are kind of being encouraged to take it offline and use AI tools to basically not need Tableau.  And I'm going to tell you my own story is this is true.  Um, I've been building dashboards with lovable since maybe September and then I started switching to cloud and I said let me try just building these things um in cloud.

I started using Google AI studio as well, but I'm really comfortable with code right now.  And with code AI, I mean, the things I'm able to build, I'm a able to build things that I didn't even know if they existed when it came to these data viz templates.  Uh, so I'm kind of building it as I go, but I'm also able to use AI to ask about solving problems, like, hey, I'm I'm trying to do X and I have these other concerns.  And I just basically throw the the whole question and prompt and I just leave it to AI.  And quite often it's coming up with like really great solutions.

And sometimes they work, sometimes they don't, but it doesn't cost much.  I mean, it costs like a couple prompts, uh, wait a couple minutes, and then you get your result.  And if you like the result, you iterate.  And if you don't like the result, you just can it and move on or try something else.  But the work I've been able to do is just like I I I really think there's going to be a big concern that anyone that's using Tableau, Looker Studio, PowerBI, I mean these are great tools and they can connect to a lot of different ecosystems, but I think I just think things have moved so fast like you as an affiliate need to connect with like 100 different type of link tracking tools and you might want to connect Google Analytics, Google search console and maybe there's going to be some new uh type of consoles available when it comes to the analytics you might be able to get with I don't know maybe open AAI is going to build one maybe cloud is going to build one perplexity and all these things so I think as long as we all have unique data requirements there's always going to be like you know what it's custom to me okay great what does custom to me look like it's basically putting your data into a prompt and saying here's access to my my databases or I need uh a prompt that creates a file that can connect to my databases and I just need to build the app and then as you're building, you're basically uploading files and testing it.

I'm doing these iterations so fast that it's just like like the the amount of work we have in database.  I'm just blown away by what I'm able to do personally.  Um so it's it's helping me accelerate uh a lot of personal projects.  It's um you know, it's accelerating building the database inside of our app.  That's something we've been wanting to do for a couple years because it's long overdue for us.

And I just think companies that don't do this are going to be falling behind.  And I think it's going to be very easy for people to see websites and software that aren't doing any of these things.  I think the the separation of what we're going to see in the next couple years is going to be be very extreme.  I think you're going to see like companies that are just kind of humming along.  They're buzzing.

They're moving forward.  and other companies, they're just going to be flatlining because they're not using these AI tools to improve any part of their business, whether it's automations, it's emails, it's customer supports, it's data viz, it's AI reporting, um it's the pricing page, you name it.  It's you're now going to be able to see who's doing this and who isn't.  And I think this is going to be also another piece of the next wave of M&amp;A where you know for mergers and acquisitions it's like find me sites that I know for a fact aren't doing any of these things and it's not going to be difficult.  It's going to be find me outdated designs, find me outdated code, find me outdated content.

It's all there.  Um, and then you're going to be able to find these things and say, "Hey, uh, this is a good asset, but it's a fixer upper, and it's going to be your it's going to be your leverage and your arbitrage for how you're able to, you know, get your ROI back sooner than later. " So, yeah.  Um, Tableau I I think is I don't think it's going to fully disappear, but I think when when Salesforce bought this thing years and years ago, I don't think they ever envisioned that AI was just going to like destroy all the stuff.  But I think we're here and I'm personally excited.

But I think for people that work in data viz that maybe are experienced in any of like the big three, Tableau, Looker Stu, Looker Studio, PowerBI, and even other ones like Meta, Metabase, um I think you're going to need to learn how to use AI to either move off of these tools or know how AI is going to work with you in keeping working with these tools.