and welcome to the PhillyBI podcast.  You're joining me on a quick little nature hike.  So, for anyone who's watching the video version, you can see a little bit.  And today, I'm going to talk a short topic about business intelligence and the idea of selling it.  Uh, so I'm thinking about changing this podcast from the AffiliateBI podcast to the Revenue League podcast.

And I've got a couple reasons for it.  Um, first of all, when it came to building Stats Drone, uh, the idea behind it was primarily just to kind of solve revenue leak for affiliates.  I just noticed that affiliates, they weren't really looking at their data, so they couldn't really make data driven decisions.  And there'd be so many ways in which you could lose money as an affiliate.  Like for example, if you had a campaign that just stopped delivering any clicks or the clicks weren't registering with the affiliate program, then you're losing money.

Now, if you happen to have in back in the day been using a tool like Nifty Stats or Stats Remote, you'd be at least lucky to have some sort of visibility on your data.  But just because you had that visibility doesn't mean it actually would detect uh detect these problems for you.  So, um that was part of why I wanted to at least build Statone and say, "Okay, you know what?  Let's help solve it so you don't need to look through tables of data to see everything. " Now it goes without saying like as soon as you say the word business intelligence you're like well what does what comes to mind with business intelligence you get things like Tableau PowerBI uh looker studio um a lot of data viz tools and if you start doing analysis there there's a massive amount of money in that whole space and in some instance you can basically say that AI is now a subset of it it's like well then what is AI in relation to business intelligence and data analysis and analytics They kind of all come hand in hand.

So, um, and another thing I wanted to say is that while we're trying to go through our journey of getting more users to use SAS drone, we looked at the TAM, which is the total addressable market, and realized that the market's massive.  Like, how many affiliates are there in the world?  There's millions and millions.  Like, Amazon has what, a million affiliates on their own.  A win with their network which used to include share a sale before it kind of merged in that's a million.

What's impact. com have?  I don't know.  I mean if they're not at a million it's still a lot.  So affiliates are everywhere but they're not all using tools to aggregate their data and get the data.

So you start with collecting the data and then you process it and then you start adding the BI layers which are now going to become in some aspects maybe the AI layers of giving you the automated insights.  So, I just found that trying to sell a BI solution as BI, it's kind of like it doesn't speak to people.  I mean, they can kind of understand it on a surface level, but when you say business, business intelligence, I've discovered that a lot of companies that offer BI solutions, they struggle to sell.  They struggle to kind of get the message across.  And the best way of selling it kind of comes through pain.

And it's like, well, what's pain?  Revenue leak.  So, it's kind of like it's not just to say like, you know, we want to call it uh a different name of a podcast for selling, but we also wanted to make it emotional.  And when I thought about Revenue League, I wasn't even thinking about a really famous podcast that I was a big fan of that uh is no longer hosted by Chris Walker, which is Revenue Vitals.  It's like, well, that's a pretty cool name.

What is Revenue Vitals?  It's the vitals of your revenue where if you don't solve this, you're going uh your your life is on the line.  So that was a pretty emotional name for a podcast.  And I think the reason why that podcast was uh popular wasn't because um you know it wasn't because like you know Chris Walker is charismatic.  It's because of his content.

I mean if it was called revenue vitals and he had [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] content no one would care that was even revenue vitals in the first place.  So yeah, it's um like I care about this concept of revenue leak and I just think it's going to resonate with a lot more people and I think it'll give us permission to kind of go into a couple other spaces outside of affiliate marketing and go well what is revenue leak in e-commerce and different industries and how can we learn from their experiences and bring bring that inward.  So, let us know what you think about the concept of revenue leak as the name of the podcast.  And um who knows?  Uh I think it it actually might be a new change we're going to do very soon.

And I just thought it was insightful to talk about the idea that um I know a lot of friends that have uh you know business intelligence companies as services or um tools and for some reason tools seem very difficult to sell.  The the services is maybe easier to sell but it's still a hard sell.  I mean, a lot of people are kind of going, well, am I going to save money?  And it all comes full circle back to the pain.  So, I think for all of us uh companies that are trying to help each other, we need to focus on the pain part and help people make better decisions.

I mean, if we're here as as to be try to be very helpful, then it really comes down to being helpful and we got to speak their language that they understand the best.  So, thanks a lot for tuning in and yeah, maybe uh your future episodes might be sounding a little different and uh going to spend a bit more work on the presentation of it and yeah, try to get some uh really cool different people on board and talk about some challenging topics.  Uh for some people might be uncomfortable, but for other people we want them to be like, "Oh, wow.